# info474-data-exploration

## Visit the website
[Link here](todo add url)

## Rationale
### Data expression
The data set from the CDC contained rows of vaccine coverage data for each state which was processed by removing the uncertainty values for each percentage and saving the Excel file as a csv. There were three general variables that needed to be plotted - state, vaccines, and the percentage coverage for each vaccine. Since the vaccines and percentage coverage could be grouped by state, I chose to use a grouped bar chart to visualize this data set. A grouped bar chart utilizes the elementary perceptual task of position along a common scale, which ranks high in the hierarchy of perceptual tasks. This allows for quantitative information to be decoded more accurately than a divided bar chart, which would have utilized the perception of length. The coverage bars (each bar represents a vaccine coverage) per state is directly adjacent to each other to minimize the distance between the position comparisons. This proximity requires me to utilize color to separate the vaccines. The color scheme is kept consistent - whereupon vaccines keep the same color across states to provide visual consistency for the reader. To delimit between different states, horizontal spacing is used because this maintains the position comparison along a common scale while. To continue the theme of reducing complexity, there is a legend to represent which color corresponds to which vaccine. Finally, tooltips are added to provide additional interaction and accuracy by providing the actual vaccine coverage value.

### Control feature 1 - State selection
This control feature was selected for primarily two reasons - (1) controlling the amount of data that was shown and (2) allowing for easier comparisons between interested states. The first reason is because bar charts for 50 states on an approximately 1000 pixel width is hard to view without feeling cramped or illegible. The control feature lets the user see what he or she wants to see in terms of the state(s). It is much easier to compare across seven states versus comparing across all fifty states. However, there is no limit on the selection which allows the reader to still be able to select all 50 states. There are benefits to doing so such as seeing that HepB Birth dose vaccine coverage has a wide variation amongst the states.

This ability to choose a state lends itself to the second reason which is the selective comparison feature. For example, I wanted to know if geographic location has any impact on coverage. I chose three West coast states (WA, OR, CA) and three East coast states (ME, MD, MA) and compared the vaccines (3+DTaP, 4+DTaP, 3+Polio). I saw that 3+Polio vaccine coverage was generally higher in the East coast compared to the West coast. However, the values are all pretty similar especially where 4+DTaP has the lowest coverage amongst the three vaccines chosen. This suggests that there is a force such as federal law that enforces these vaccinations which would need to be supported by additional research.

### Control feature 2 - Vaccine selection
The second control feature is similar to the first feature but is focused on selecting the different vaccines from the data set. The ability to select multiple vaccines allows for the readers to make more comparison in an easy and intuitive manner. For example, if I select all the vaccines and select the state of Arizona, I can see that the 2+HepA vaccine is the least covered while 3+DTaP is the most covered. This powerful comprehension is granted through this graphic and feature since it is difficult to do so by simply looking at a table of values. I can extend this further by looking at different states, whereupon Alaska compared to Arizona or Alabama has lower coverage across the vaccines.